One day, this Prince of Snakes sees an old man plucking flowers in his own gardens and, irritated, asks the old man the reason for his presence. The old man answers he is just plucking flowers for his four daughters, of varying charm and beauty: the eldest pock-faced and the fourth the most beautiful. He ponders on this information and demands the old man send the fourth daughter to him as his bride in ten days time, lest he send a troop of snakes to devour him and his family.

The man returns home and tells the situation to his daughters. The three elders refuse to marry the snake, despite his threat, but the youngest, Almond Blossom, being the "most devotedly filial", offers to go in her father's place. The fairies listen to her plea and, touched by her devotion, send one of their own to protect her against her enemies.

At the appointed time, a sedan-chair comes to their house to get Almond Blossom as the snake's bride and to take her to her future husband. The father follows behind his daughter some days later and reaches the snake's palace. He is greeted by his daughter, who looks very pleased with her new life: a loving husband and a lavish palace. She tells her father her husband is on a journey and sends him back to his humble house with extravagant gifts.

After the father returns home, he shows the grand presents to his daughters. The eldest begins to nurture a jealous heart and decides to visit her sister. She goes and admires the whole palace. She convinces Almond Blossom to show her around the property. They reach an empty well. The eldest sister shoves her in.

After some time, the eldest sister still at the snake king's palace, a little bird flies out of the well and begins to sing a song with almost human-like qualities. The eldest sister, fearing that the bird will reveal the truth, snap its neck and throws it outside the house. Some time later, a clump of bamboo grow up on the spot of the bird's remains. The eldest sister, sensing that the bamboo will also reveal the truth, gets an axe and chops them down.

Some of the snake king's servants see the chopped down bamboo and take some of them to fashion a new chair. The Snake King finally returns home and asks about his wife. The eldest sister says only that she saw her by the well, and the servants also do not know her whereabouts. Suddenly, the chair turns into Almond Blossom, who accuses her sister of trying to kill her. Enraged, the snake king orders the execution of his sister-in-law